---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  Bricks
author: joao
---

_Chaos in the Brickyard_,  
by Bernard K. Forscher, 
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota
 • [link](http://www.dartmouth.edu/~bio125/Forscher_Chaos_1963.pdf)

Once upon a time [...] there was an activity 
called scientific research and the performers of this activity 
were called scientists. 
In reality, however, these [...] were builders 
who constructed edifices, called explanations or laws, 
by assembling bricks, called facts.
When the bricks were sound and were
assembled properly, the edifice was
useful and durable and brought pleasure,
and sometimes reward, to the builder. 
If the bricks were faulty or if they were assembled badly, 
the edifice would crumble [...]
Because the quality of the bricks was so important 
to the success of the edifice, 
and because bricks were so scarce, in those days 
the builders made their own bricks. 
The making of bricks was a difficult and expensive undertaking 
and the wise builder avoided waste by making only bricks 
of the shape and size necessary for the enterprise at hand. 
The builder was guided in this manufacture by a blueprint, 
called a theory or hypothesis.

[...] builders realized that they were sorely hampered 
in their efforts by delays in obtaining bricks.
Thus there arose a new skilled trade known as brickmaking [...]
This new arrangement was very efficient and the construction
of edifices proceeded with great vigor. 
Sometimes brickmakers became inspired and progressed 
to the status of builders. 
In spite of the separation of duties, 
bricks still were made with care and usually were produced only on order. Now and then an enterprising brickmaker was able to foresee
a demand and would prepare a stock of bricks ahead of time, 
but, in general, brickmaking was done on a custom basis 
because it still was a difficult and expensive process.

And then it came to pass that a misunderstanding spread 
among the brickmakers (there are some who say that this 
misunderstanding developed as a result of careless training 
of a new generation of brickmakers). 
The brickmakers became obsessed with the making of bricks. 
When reminded that the ultimate goal was edifices, not bricks,
they replied that, if enough bricks were available, 
the builders would be able to select what was necessary 
and still continue to construct edifices. 
The flaws in this argument were not readily apparent [...]
The expense of brickmaking became a minor factor because
large sums of money were made available;
the time and effort involved in brickmaking was reduced 
by ingenious automatic machinery; the ranks of the
brickmakers were swelled by augmented training programs 
and intensive recruitment. 
It even was suggested that the production of a suitable number
of bricks was equivalent to building an edifice 
and therefore should entitle the industrious brickmaker 
to assume the title of builder and, with the title, the authority.

And so it happened that the land became flooded with bricks. 
It became necessary to organize more and more storage places, 
called journals, and more and more elaborate systems of 
bookkeeping to record the inventory. 
In all of this the brickmakers retained their pride and 
skill and the bricks were of the very best quality. 
But production was ahead of demand and bricks no longer 
were made to order. The size and shape was now dictated by 
changing trends in fashion. 
In order to compete successfully with other brickmakers,
production emphasized those types of brick that were easy to make
and only rarely did an adventuresome brickmaker 
attempt a difficult or unusual design. 
The influence of tradition in production methods and 
in types of product became a dominating factor.
Unfortunately, the builders were almost
destroyed. It became difficult to
find the proper bricks for a task because
one had to hunt among so many.
It became difficult to find a suitable
plot for construction of an edifice because
the ground was covered with
loose bricks. It became difficult to
complete a useful edifice because, as
soon as the foundations were discernible,
they were buried under an avalanche
of random bricks.  
And, saddest of all, sometimes no effort was made even to 
maintain the distinction between a pile of bricks and a true edifice.





